[MUSIC]
>> Brian Holt: Let's go ahead and
we're gonna make another component here.
This time we're gonna actually
create our own component here,
like we're actually going to be
creating our own reusable components.
Just like we have divs and
H1's we're gonna make our own component
that we can throw on the page.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so
go over to ClientApp.js.
>> Brian Holt: And
let's go ahead below the H1 here.
We're gonna create one called MyTitle.
>> Brian Holt: And
then we're gonna say React.createClass.
>> Brian Holt: This is the way that React
allows us to create our own components,
which is pretty cool.
>> Brian Holt: Okay, and
I'm gonna give it a render method.
>> Brian Holt: So
here's some ES6 magic for you.
>> Brian Holt: Most of us are used to
saying : function which you totally can.
That's totally fine and
go ahead if that works better for you.
But this is called enhanced
object literal syntax.
In other words, it just allows you
to not write the word function.
I don't know if anyone told you but
the entire point of ES six is to never
write the word function ever again.
[LAUGH] And actually you can literally
never write the word function again,
you can totally sidestep entirely.
>> Brian Holt: So,
that's what this that's that means,
it's just a shorter way of
writing out colon function.
>> Brian Holt: Okay.
And here we're gonna do is
we're going going to return.
>> Brian Holt: Just basically
the same syntax that we had before.
So div null
>> Brian Holt: And h1(null, "Check out
this other thing.") I don't know,
whatever you want to put there.
Okay?
and then down here in my first component
rather than using the H1 in the div
here directly, we're gonna actually
do it a little bit differently.
So go ahead and delete just the H1 here.
Then I wanna do a React.createElement.
>> Brian Holt: MyTitle, common null
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
so we have two things here.
We have createClass, which is creating
a new type of element, right?
It's like creating a div, or
not a div, it's creating div, right?
It's creating a type of component that
can be used many, many, many times, okay?
Then we have createElement
which is one specific instance
of this class that we created, right?
So you create one MyTitle
which is a class, right?
But you're gonna create
a bunch of elements, right?
So it's an instance of the class.
Let's see what that means, right?
Again, we'll only ever create one
MyTitle but we can come down here and
create a whole bunch of these element
like of using the create elements, right?
Which means we're going to be
using it multiple times, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay, so, and
then the other thing worth mentioning is
notice we have an encircling div, right?
Well the reason for that is, you can't
have, if you think about it, you can't
have var x = 1, 2, 3, what would b
be in this particular case, right?
You can't have multiple assignments for
x here, right?
But you can have,
It'll be like an array of numbers, right?
And that's kind of the same idea
that we're getting at here by having
an encircling div, right.
You can't have MyFirstComponent be equal
to a bunch of different elements, right?
You have to have MyFirstComponent
be equal to one thing.
So in this particular case, it's one div
and the div has a bunch of children.
So this is very important
that you can't have it be,
have multiple siblings be
the top level element, right?
You have to have exactly one top level
element for any sort of component.
>> Brian Holt: Does that make sense?
Okay.
Any questions about what we've done here?
>> Brian Holt: Let's take a look
at what we've created here.
>> Brian Holt: If you go back over here,
now we have Check out this other thing,
a bunch of different times, right?
>> Brian Holt: So what MyTitle is called,
this is called a composite component and
basically it's a component
of our own creation.
And this is actually where that like
the magic of react starts coming in.
We can now create all these
reusable components and
then use them all over the place, right?
For example if you can think on Reddit,
right?
Reddit is,
if you don't know what Reddit is,
it's just essentially a fancy forum right?
That has nested comments, right?
Think of how many different ways
Reddit displays it's comments, right?
It can be stored on like
different kinds of sub editor,
can be styled different ways.
It can be pulled out into like an embed
you throw on another page, right?
But the nice thing about is we create
exactly one comment component and
we can just throw it on anywhere that
we need to put a component, right?
Or say you have like a branding
on your page, right?
How many times user branding
throughout your website?
You create one component for it and
you can throw it anywhere on your website.
And then we can start making composite
components that are a composite of other
composite components.
Wow that's kind of a tongue-twister but
basically what I'm trying to say is that
you can make these kind of bigger
components that contain many other smaller
components that you've created, which
we'll also start doing here a little bit.
>> Speaker 2: There's a question.
>> Brian Holt: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Can you cover the difference
between instance versus
component versus element?
>> Brian Holt: Sure,
>> Brian Holt: So,
let's go over here look at our browser,
right?
We have this check out this
other thing four times, right?
So each one of these is
an instance of MyTitle, right?
This is an element on a page.
But there is exactly one class, right,
there's only one MyTitle class.
This is us creating a new type of dive,
a new type of H1, a new type of something
that we're going to display on the page.
So this is the [SOUND] This is us
creating the new type of component.
In fact,
I think our next little segment will
actually make that a little bit clearer.
So if you don't get it after
the next segment let's revisit that.
But basically ideas,
this is a new type of class and
this is just us,
throwing that class on the page.
>> Brian Holt: After that,
helps explain it a little bit.
>> Brian Holt: And I think as we get to
JSX that will also clear it up a little
bit as well.
Any other questions?
>> Speaker 2: There was a question,
do you know any open source projects
that demonstrate good code
organization for React.
>> Brian Holt: I do, actually.
The React Router project,
we're actually gonna be using
React Router much later today.
But they have some example
projects inside of their repo.
And I actually am a fan of the way they
chose to organize, especially like the,
there's one called like huge app or
something like that, big app.
And I think they have some interesting
ideas of how to organize code,
>> Brian Holt: Cuz I certainly don't.
[LAUGH] Other questions?
>> Brian Holt: Great.
All right.
>> Brian Holt: So
we're gonna refactor this just a tiny bit,
cuz this react create element
is a little annoying, right?
Like it's a lot cleaner to
see that this div right here.
>> Brian Holt: Excuse me [COUGH] So
what we're going to do,
is we're gonna create
what's called a factory.
So underneath MyTitle here,
say var MyTitleFact,
I mean call factory if that's easier for
you.
Equals React.createFactory(MyTitle),
okay, and what's nice about
this is now we can start,
instead of doing React.createElement so
many different times, what we can do is,
we can just say MyTitleFact(null).
So it's up to you to decide which of
these two lines are totally equivalent.
It's up to decide what
you think is cleaner.
There's also a school of thought that
you can say so var, I think they call it
like ce = React.createElement and
so you just pull out that function.
And then you can also do
>> Brian Holt: Ce like that.
I just took that one out.
Okay, so these three lines
work exactly the same way.
>> Brian Holt: This,
these two should make some sense, right?
ce here is literally just this.
It's just that being pulled out up here,
right?
And then MyTitleFact basically allows
you to treat MyTitle like
this div up here, right?
>> Brian Holt: Okay,
any questions about that?
I mean let's just save it and
make sure that actually works
like I tell you it should, right?
So now we have three of them, right?
So again up to you to decide if
you think that's cleaner or not.
We're actually gonna get to jsx
later where all this becomes a moot
point anyway.
[LAUGH] But I think it's good for
you to know exactly what reactor
is doing underneath the hood.
And any one of these works and
if you decide to not go the JSX path
these actually are super useful for
you to know how to use.
>> Speaker 3: What is the difference
between if those two like say MyTitleFact
argument null and React.createElements,
MyTitle, null are equivalent,
then what is the difference
between a factory and a null?
>> Brian Holt: A factory basically
makes this into a function
that when it called,
it gives you back the component, right?
Whereas this React.createElement
is actually calling MyTitle for
you underneath the hood, right?
So it's just it's how it's creating
the element that's that it
is where it differs.
Did that explain it?
Okay.
>> Brian Holt: Most
people don't even choose,
like I would imagine most react developers
if you ask them what is create factory
they don't know because
they never have to use it.
You'll never use create factory with JSX,
like they're mutually exclusive.